Just got back from one week over Christmas at the Starfish Resort in Cayo Santa Maria. Great time! I will give my review here. If I have missed any details that you have questions about, please feel free to message me. To the Management of the Starfish, if you would like more details and ideas for improving your business, please message me directly.

So, I went in with 4 major concerns 1) Cleanliness of the rooms/bathrooms/general indoor areas, 2) Food quality, 3) Activities and 4) Entertainment. I will comment on each of these:

1) Cleanliness - very good. The room was cleaner than I imagined and the washroom in the room was very good. Water pressure in the shower was low, of course, as it is everywere in Cuba but at least there was hot water. Toilet paper was rationed to one roll per day which was not enough for two people. Tip - bring one/two rolls of toilet paper from home. The washrooms in the reception area were also generally clean but there was a shortage of toilet paper and
the toilets did not flush.  Toilets in other areas of the resort were in similar condition. The resort is generally very clean and we
ll-maintained.

2) Food - very good. No issues with bad food. I brought condiments but they were not needed at all. I highly recommend the fresh fried eggs/omelettes at breakfast and the papaya and watermelon. For lunch and dinner I recommend the pork ribs and fried chicken. The desserts were fantastic. The pizza was good. The house wine is good enough - no need to get fancy with buying a bottle of wine unless you really want to. 
And the coffee bar was a real treat! It is all included and they serve you at your table. Great coffee and they serve Mojitos, Starfish rum and other cocktails. Very pleasant surprise that this is all included. Hope it stays that way! The waitresses in the coffee bar deserve special mention. They really did a great job. I should also mention that the 2 restaurants onsite, Bellamar and "The Italian Restaurant" offered good food in a 
nice restaurant setting. I really highly recommend the Bellamar, especially outdoor section. It is gorgeous! And , yes, it is included (except for the lobster dinner). Overall I was very impressed with the quality of food at this resort and the high standard of service. One bad note; the reservation system is a joke. You have to reserve at the restaurants and then you find that it is half empty after having waited a long time in line.

3) Activities - Ok, this is where the Starfish really shines! Very nice job by the Animation staff. They were friendly and really concerned for the clients. A special mention to Melanie with Lookea who did an amazing job overall and led a great yoga/fitness class. And a special mention to Dilean and Henry who went above and beyond in making us feel welcome. Dilean is a very strong volleyball player and a great dancer. Henry is the best tennis player at the Starfish!
The activities ran from 10am to 12:30 every morning with fitness classes, beach volleyball and dance classes. There is also sailing available in catamarans which is also included! On a side note, it would be nice to see the resort put more emphasis on tennis. There were 2 tennis courts available but only one net installed. And there were no tennis leagues or tournaments available. THe Starfish really needs to get on this! There were several tennis players there. Too bad 
the tennis wasn't better organized.

4) Entertainment - I was a bit concerned that this resort might be boring but I needn't have worried. They had shows, concerts, performances every night. We saw the Buena Vista Social Club on Monday night (excursion with seperate charge) and we saw several Cuban bands playing live throughout the week which was all included. The quality of the concerts and shows was absolutely top-notch. Great friggin' job guys! Keep it up! On a final note, I should mention that the same young kids 
who do the Animation also do the shows. There were some really fun shows. I liked the musical trivia show and the audience participation portions. Again a special mention to Henry and Dilean who really got us involved each night.


Other things to know about the resort are as follows:

The beach is gorgeous. I don't think that you can find a nicer beach anywhere. White sand, not rocky bottom, gentle slope into the ocean. 

There is another resort right next door. Can't remember the name, but it is a beautiful resort, within walking distance which has some additional facilities like stores, concert hall, resturants which is nice to have nearby (about 1 km away).

You NEED to bring insect repellant!! No joke, there are mosquitoes everywhere, especially after 5pm. Bring some OFF or your preferrred brand of insect repellant. Apply liberally all over your body and face, neck, ears, toes, etc. You will thank me later.

Bring plastic travel coffee mugs to use at the bars. Otherwise they will serve you tiny drinks in thimble-sized plastic cups. 

They have recently added a french team (from France) for the Animation team. This is a major upgrade to this resort. There were also a lot of french clients from France. So, the clients were an interesting mix of Canadians, Quebecois, Latinos and Francais de la France. The entire Lookea group was very professional and friendly. Sadly, none of them play tennis. Quel dommage!

For the Excursions, we went on the Catamaran tour which included snorkelling, lunch, interaction with dolphins and dolphin show. This is apparently the most popular excursion and we enjoyed it thoroughly. The excursion to Remedios was not so good; the town is very small and there is not much to see and do there. 

Finally, be kind and tip the workers. They work hard and deserve your support. 

Thanks for reading.

